Misconceptions about blockchain? Where to begin?

Probably the biggest misconception is limiting its scope to crytocurrency. Lots of people hear blockchain and think about Bitcoin only, despite the wide array of applications that blockchain can really have. I think that people more familiar with blockchain see it as a superfluous buzz word that's thrown around without really meaning anything, or just an impossibly-intensive computational application that isn't very effective right now to implement. And finally, on the other end of the spectrum, there's the blockchain diehards that would put blockchain into anything that looks remotely like a computer program without asking questions.

That's not necessarily the way to go about it. From my experience learning about creating DApps and blockchains, I've seen better potential for applications and implementations. It's not about cryptocurrency only; there's other finance applications, healthcare, some random IoT applications, even genetic data. Anything involving sensitive data that is somewhat sequential in nature has some potential to be improved with a blockchain. 

I've also learned what a blockchain actually is. Blockchains are chains of blocks storing data (usually known as "transactions") hashed together to create difficulty in seeing the actual data, taking advantage of sequential storing of previous hashes to keep everything safe. Maintainers on the network "mine" candidate blocks by performing proof-of work, publicly announce added transactions and blocks, and come to a consensus on which chain to follow. And it's a great system that follows the idea of "cryptographic proof over trust" pushed by Satoshi Nakamoto in the original Bitcoin white paper. 
From there, you can add on smart contracts from Ethereum that are immutable and transparent, to let users understand what goes on with the data submitted in a block and blockchain, which allows for much more functionality and gives birth to a wide variety of DApps. For example, I've been thinking about a possible forward contracts OTM market that used a blockchain ecosystem instead of the usual central clearinghouses to assure investors of the credit worthiness of the other person on the contract (by taking deposits and automatically calculating changes at the time of expiration). My experience has taught me more and showed me the potential of blockchain, and I'm grateful for that.
